In the previous video, we already learn about
vlan.
Next in this video we are going to learn about
trunk.
So what is trunk?
We will about learn trunk by doing, but before
that, we need to create another topology first.
Here let’s add one more switch, and then
add some pc,
let’s say here we will need 4 pc.
But here I just add 2 new pc, and bring this
2 pc here.
Let’s also change the name of the PC. Here
the last is pc 4, so this is pc 5, pc 6, pc 7,
and this is pc 8.
Okay now here we will configure this new switch
exactly same with the old switch.
So here we will configure pc 5 and pc 6 to vlan
10, and pc 7 and pc 8 to vlan 20.
Before configure the vlan, let’s change
the name of the switch first, this is switch 1
and this is switch 2.
Now let’s configure the vlan in switch 2.
Here we can see fa0/1 and fa0/2, so this two
interface will be in the vlan 10.
And here we have fa0/3 and fa0/4, this two
interface will be in the vlan 20.
Okay let’s start.
Enable, configure terminal, and then create
the vlan.
Vlan 10, the name is accounting, next let’s
create for vlan 20.
Vlan 20, and then the name is marketing.
Let’s see the vlan, show vlan brief.
Okay here we can see that we have vlan 10
and vlan 20,
but all of interface is still in vlan 1.
Next, let’s assign interface fa0/1 and fa0/2
to vlan 10.
Interface range fa0/1-2 . In the previous
video, I show you how to assign interface
to vlan one by one.
So we go to interface fa0/1, assign the interface
to vlan 10, then go to interface fa0/2 and
assign the interface again to vlan 10.
But now, here I show you how to assign multiple
interface to a vlan at once,
here we can use range.
So interface range fa0/1-2, then switchport
mode access,
and finally switchport access vlan 10.
This is means that we assign interface fa0/1
and fa0/2 to vlan 10.
Now let’s verify it.
Here we can see that now
interface fa0/1 and fa0/2 is already in the vlan 10.
Next let’s assign the interface for vlan
20.
Interface range fa0/3-4, switchport mode access,
and then switchport access vlan 20.
Let’s verify it.
Okay here we can see that interface fa0/3
and fa0/4 is already in the vlan 20.
Next let’s configure the ip address of all
pc. In this case, we will configure the ip
address of all vlan with same block subnet.
But always remember that in the production,
each vlan must be use different block subnet.
Here I use same block subnet for all vlan
just for learning.
Okay here pc 5 the ip address is 192.168.1.5,
pc 6 the ip address is 192.168.1.6, pc 7 the ip address
is 192.168.1.7 and last pc 8 the ip address
is 192.168.1.8.
Okay now we have done.
For the testing, let’s send packet between
pc in the same vlan.
Okay here success.
So between pc in the vlan 10 is ok.
Next let’s test for vlan 20.
Okay here also success.
Okay I think enough for this video, in the
next video, we are going to learn about trunk.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.